---
title: "Static tweets: the deprecation"
description: "Why this site no longer features articles and code about embedding fully static tweets."
author: Bryce Wray
date: 2022-11-07T13:59:00-06:00
# draft: true
# initTextEditor: iA Writer
---

Things have gotten steadily stranger at Twitter in recent days, with no apparent end in sight to the strangeness. First, new owner Elon Musk  [fired about half of the company](https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/twitters-chaotic-short-notice-layoffs-rcna55661) and then, apparently upon discovering that this meat-ax approach was going to complicate things for his plans for the platform, [asked some of the fired workers to return at least for a while](https://www.reuters.com/technology/twitter-asks-some-laid-off-workers-come-back-bloomberg-news-2022-11-06/).

Perhaps it was collateral damage from all the resulting chaos or perhaps it was just coincidental, but calls to Twitter's public syndication API are no longer working as they were before. Prior to the last few days, entering the following into a terminal:

```bash
curl "https://cdn.syndication.twimg.com/tweet?id=463440424141459456"
```

. . . would return JSON that one could use, as I've explained in several posts this year (about which, more below), to produce a fully static, tracking-free embed of a still-live [2014 tweet by the U.S. Department of the Interior](https://twitter.com/Interior/status/463440424141459456). But, as of this writing, you get an **HTML** failure response, including the text "Looks like this page doesn’t exist"; and trying any other live tweet produces the same result.

Thus, for whatever reason, it appears this API is no longer live --- at least, not reliably so that I can continue to suggest its use for the purposes about which I've written. Maybe it'll come back to full functionality, and maybe it won't. Especially given the unsettled situation at Twitter, I no longer care.

After witnessing these changes, I deprecated the most recent versions of either the full posts, or at least relevant sections thereof, in which I wrote about using this API. Each such item's URL still works, but the content is gone --- albeit moved, for the sake of the curious, to a separate, linked, `.deprecation` location on the site's online repo. For example, go to [the URL for the original post of the series](/posts/2022/02/static-tweets-eleventy-hugo/) and see what's there now.

As for why I didn't try a different API: the only other Twitter APIs left for embedding tweets don't provide full JSON for content such as included "cards" (auto-generated by privacy-violating scripting, with no JSON-provided content available for static embedding).

I apologize to anyone whom these changes may inconvenience --- I'm not crazy about them myself --- but the Twitter times, they are a-changin', and I've chosen to deprecate what now (for whatever reasons) has become inaccurate and outdated content. It was fun while it lasted.
